.TH LIBPFM 3  "July, 2017" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
libpfm_amd64_fam17h - support for AMD64 Family 17h processors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <perfmon/pfmlib.h>
.sp
.B PMU name: amd64_fam17h (deprecated), amd_fam17h_zen1
.B PMU desc: AMD64 Fam17h Zen1
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The library supports AMD Family 17h processors Zen1 core PMU in both 32 and 64-bit modes.
The amd64_fam17h PMU model name has been deprecated in favor of amd_fam17h_zen1. The old
name is maintained for backward compatibility reasons, but should not be used anymore.

.SH MODIFIERS
The following modifiers are supported on AMD64 Family 17h Zen1 core PMU:
.TP
.B u
Measure at user level which includes privilege levels 1, 2, 3. This corresponds to \fBPFM_PLM3\fR.
This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B k
Measure at kernel level which includes privilege level 0. This corresponds to \fBPFM_PLM0\fR.
This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B h
Measure at while executing in host mode (when using virtualization). This corresponds to \fBPFM_PLMH\fR.
This modifier is available starting with Fam10h. This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B g
Measure at while executing in guest mode (when using virtualization). This modifier is available
starting with Fam10h. This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B i
Invert the meaning of the event. The counter will now count cycles in which the event is \fBnot\fR
occurring. This is a boolean modifier
.TP
.B e
Enable edge detection, i.e., count only when there is a state transition. This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B c
Set the counter mask value. The mask acts as a threshold. The counter will count the number of cycles
in which the number of occurrences of the event is greater or equal to the threshold. This is an integer
modifier with values in the range [0:255].

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Stephane Eranian <eranian@gmail.com>
.if
.PP
