.TH LIBPFM 3  "September, 2009" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
libpfm_intel_coreduo - support for Intel Core Duo/Solo processors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <perfmon/pfmlib.h>
.sp
.B PMU name: coreduo
.B PMU desc: Intel Core Duo
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The library supports all Intel Yonah-based processors such as Intel Core Duo and
Intel Core Solo processors.

.SH MODIFIERS
The following modifiers are supported on Intel Core Duo processors:
.TP
.B u
Measure at user level which includes privilege levels 1, 2, 3. This corresponds to \fBPFM_PLM3\fR.
This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B k
Measure at kernel level which includes privilege level 0. This corresponds to \fBPFM_PLM0\fR.
This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B i
Invert the meaning of the event. The counter will now count cycles in which the event is \fBnot\fR
occurring. This is a boolean modifier
.TP
.B e
Enable edge detection, i.e., count only when there is a state transition. This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B c
Set the counter mask value. The mask acts as a threshold. The counter will count the number of cycles
in which the number of occurrences of the event is greater or equal to the threshold. This is an integer
modifier with values in the range [0:255].

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
It is possible to force activation of the Intel Core Duo support using the \fBLIBPFM_FORCE_PMU\fR variable.
The PMU name, coreduo, must be passed. No additional options are supported.
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Stephane Eranian <eranian@gmail.com>
.if
.PP
