.TH LIBPFM 3  "February, 2024" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
libpfm_intel_adl_glc - support for Intel Alderlake Goldencove (P-Core) core PMU
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <perfmon/pfmlib.h>
.sp
.B PMU name: adl_glc
.B PMU desc: Intel Alderlake Goldencove (P-core)
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The library supports the Intel Alderlake Goldencove (P-Core) core PMU. It should be noted that
this PMU model only covers each core's PMU and not the socket level PMU.
Because the processor uses a hybrid architecture with a P-Core and E-Core with a different PMU
model, it may be necessary to force a PMU instance name to get the desired encoding. For instance,
to encode for the P-Core adl_glc::BR_INST_RETIRED and for the E-core adl_grt::BR_INST_RETIRED.

On Adlerlake Goldencove (P-Core), the number of generic counters depends on the Hyperthreading (HT) mode.

The \fBpfm_get_pmu_info()\fR function returns the maximum number
of generic counters in \fBnum_cntrs\fR.

.SH MODIFIERS
The following modifiers are supported on Intel SapphireRapid processors:
.TP
.B u
Measure at user level which includes privilege levels 1, 2, 3. This corresponds to \fBPFM_PLM3\fR.
This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B k
Measure at kernel level which includes privilege level 0. This corresponds to \fBPFM_PLM0\fR.
This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B i
Invert the meaning of the event. The counter will now count cycles in which the event is \fBnot\fR
occurring. This is a boolean modifier
.TP
.B e
Enable edge detection, i.e., count only when there is a state transition from no occurrence of the event
to at least one occurrence. This modifier must be combined with a counter mask modifier (m) with a value greater or equal to one.
This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B c
Set the counter mask value. The mask acts as a threshold. The counter will count the number of cycles
in which the number of occurrences of the event is greater or equal to the threshold. This is an integer
modifier with values in the range [0:255].
.TP
.B intx
Monitor the event only when executing inside a transactional memory region (in tx). Event
does not count otherwise. This is a boolean modifiers. Default value is 0.
.TP
.B intxcp
Do not count occurrences of the event when they are inside an aborted transactional memory
region. This is a boolean modifier. Default value is 0.
.TP
.B ldlat
Pass a latency threshold in core cycles to the MEM_TRANS_RETIRED:LOAD_LATENCY event.
This is an integer attribute that must be in the range [1:65535]. It is required
for this event. The library provides a set of presets for specific latencies, such as 128.
Note that the event \fBmust\fR be used with precise sampling (PEBS).

.SH  FRONTEND_RETIRED event
For Alderlake Goldencove (P-Core), the library uses the hardcoded bubble width and bubble length provided by Intel preset events.
It is not possible to tweak either the latency or the width via the library.

.SH OFFCORE_RESPONSE events
Intel Alderlake Goldencove (P-Core) supports two encodings for offcore_response events (0x2a, 0x2b). In the library, these are called
OCR0 and OCR1. The two encodings are equivalent. On Linux, the kernel can schedule any OCR encoding into any of the two OCR counters.
The offcore_response events are exposed as a normal events by the library. The extra settings are exposed as regular umasks. The
library takes care of encoding the events according to the underlying kernel interface.

On Intel Alderlake Goldencove (P-Core), the event is treated as a regular event with a flat set of umasks to choose from.
It is not possible to combine the various requests, supplier, snoop bits anymore. The library offers the list of validated
combinations as per Intel's official event list.

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Stephane Eranian <eranian@gmail.com>
.if
.PP
