.TH LIBPFM 3  "March, 2020" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
libpfm_intel_tmt - support for Intel Tremont core PMU
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <perfmon/pfmlib.h>
.sp
.B PMU name: tmt
.B PMU desc: Intel Tremont
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The library supports the Intel Tremont core PMU.

.SH MODIFIERS
The following modifiers are supported on Intel Tremont processors:
.TP
.B u
Measure at user level which includes privilege levels 1, 2, 3. This corresponds to \fBPFM_PLM3\fR.
This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B k
Measure at kernel level which includes privilege level 0. This corresponds to \fBPFM_PLM0\fR.
This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B i
Invert the meaning of the event. The counter will now count cycles in which the event is \fBnot\fR
occurring. This is a boolean modifier
.TP
.B e
Enable edge detection, i.e., count only when there is a state transition from no occurrence of the event
to at least one occurrence. This modifier must be combined with a counter mask modifier (m) with a value greater or equal to one.
This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B c
Set the counter mask value. The mask acts as a threshold. The counter will count the number of cycles
in which the number of occurrences of the event is greater or equal to the threshold. This is an integer
modifier with values in the range [0:255].

.SH OFFCORE_RESPONSE events
Intel Tremont provides two offcore_response events:
\fBOFFCORE_RESPONSE_0\fR and \fBOFFCORE_RESPONSE_1\fR. The  \fBOCR\fR event is aliased to \fBOFFCORE_RESPONSE_0\fR.

Those events need special treatment in the performance monitoring infrastructure
because each event uses an extra register to store some settings. Thus, in
case multiple offcore_response events are monitored simultaneously, the kernel needs
to manage the sharing of that extra register.

The offcore_response event is exposed as a normal event by the library. The extra
settings are exposed as regular umasks. The library takes care of encoding the
events according for the underlying kernel interface.

On Intel Tremont, it is not possible to combine the request, supplier, snoop, fields anymore
to avoid invalid combinations. As such, the umasks provided by the library are the only ones
supported and validated.

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Stephane Eranian <eranian@gmail.com>
.if
.PP
