.TH LIBPFM 3  "January, 2018" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
libpfm_intel_skx_unc_upi - support for Intel Skylake X Server UPI uncore PMU
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <perfmon/pfmlib.h>
.sp
.B PMU name: skx_unc_upi[0-2]
.B PMU desc: Intel Skylake X Server UPI uncore PMU
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The library supports the Intel Skylake X Server UPI uncore PMU.

.SH MODIFIERS
The following modifiers are supported on Intel Skylake X server UPI uncore PMU:
.TP
.B e
Enable edge detection, i.e., count only when there is a state transition from no occurrence of the event to at least one occurrence. This modifier must be combined with a threshold modifier (t) with a value greater or equal to one.  This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B t
Set the threshold value. When set to a non-zero value, the counter counts the number
of QPI cycles in which the number of occurrences of the event is greater or equal to
the threshold.  This is an integer modifier with values in the range [0:255].
.TP
.B i
Invert the meaning of the threshold or edge filter. If set, the event counts when strictly less
than N occurrences occur per cycle if threshold is set to N. When invert is set, then threshold
must be set to non-zero value. If set, the event counts when the event transitions from occurring
to not occurring (falling edge) when edge detection is set. This is a boolean modifier

.SH BASIC_HDR_MATCH events
The library also supports the special \fBRXL_BASIC_HDR_MATCH\fR and \fBTXL_BASIC_HDR_MATCH\fR opcode matcher events. These events have a lot more filters available
in the form of either a modifier (listed below) or specific umasks.
The following modifiers are available in additional to the standard listed above:
.TP
.B rcsnid
Specify a RCS Node identifier as an integer in the range [0-15]. Default: 0
.TP
.B dnid
Specify a destination Node identifier as an integer in the range [0-15]. Default: 0

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Stephane Eranian <eranian@gmail.com>
.if
.PP
