.TH LIBPFM 3  "Nov, 2013" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
libpfm_amd64_fam15h - support for AMD64 Family 15h processors
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <perfmon/pfmlib.h>
.sp
.B PMU name: amd64_fam15h_interlagos
.B PMU desc: AMD64 Fam15h Interlagos
.B PMU name: amd64_fam15h_nb
.B PMU desc: AMD64 Fam15h Northbridge
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The library supports AMD Family 15h processors core PMU in both 32 and 64-bit modes. The
uncore (NorthBridge) PMU is also supported as a separate PMU model.

.SH MODIFIERS
The following modifiers are supported on AMD64 Family 15h core PMU:
.TP
.B u
Measure at user level which includes privilege levels 1, 2, 3. This corresponds to \fBPFM_PLM3\fR.
This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B k
Measure at kernel level which includes privilege level 0. This corresponds to \fBPFM_PLM0\fR.
This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B h
Measure at while executing in host mode (when using virtualization). This corresponds to \fBPFM_PLMH\fR.
This modifier is available starting with Fam10h. This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B g
Measure at while executing in guest mode (when using virtualization). This modifier is available
starting with Fam10h. This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B i
Invert the meaning of the event. The counter will now count cycles in which the event is \fBnot\fR
occurring. This is a boolean modifier
.TP
.B e
Enable edge detection, i.e., count only when there is a state transition. This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B c
Set the counter mask value. The mask acts as a threshold. The counter will count the number of cycles
in which the number of occurrences of the event is greater or equal to the threshold. This is an integer
modifier with values in the range [0:255].
.TP
The uncore (NorthBridge) PMU \fBdoes not support\fR any modifiers.

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Stephane Eranian <eranian@gmail.com>
Robert Richter <robert.richter@amd.com>
.if
.PP
