.TH LIBPFM 3  "August, 2012" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
libpfm_intel_snbep_unc_ubo - support for Intel Sandy Bridge-EP U-Box uncore PMU
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <perfmon/pfmlib.h>
.sp
.B PMU name: snbep_unc_ubo
.B PMU desc: Intel Sandy Bridge-EP U-Box uncore PMU
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
The library supports the Intel Sandy Bridge system configuration unit (U-Box) uncore PMU.
This PMU model only exists on Sandy Bridge model 45. There is only one U-Box PMU
per processor socket.

.SH MODIFIERS
The following modifiers are supported on Intel Sandy Bridge U-Box uncore PMU:
.TP
.B i
Invert the meaning of the event. The counter will now count HA cycles in which the
event is \fBnot\fR occurring. This is a boolean modifier
.TP
.B e
Enable edge detection, i.e., count only when there is a state transition from no occurrence of the event to at least one occurrence. This modifier must be combined with a threshold modifier (t) with a value greater or equal to one.  This is a boolean modifier.
.TP
.B t
Set the threshold value. When set to a non-zero value, the counter counts the number
of HA cycles in which the number of occurrences of the event is greater or equal to
the threshold.  This is an integer modifier with values in the range [0:15].
.TP
.B oi
Invert the meaning of the occupancy event POWER_STATE_OCCUPANCY. The counter will now count PCU cycles in which the
event is \fBnot\fR occurring. This is a boolean modifier
.TP
.B oe
Enable edge detection for the occupancy event POWER_STATE_OCCUPANCY. The event now counts only when there is a state
transition from no occurrence of the event to at least one occurrence. This modifier must be combined with a threshold
modifier (t) with a value greater or equal to one.  This is a boolean modifier.

.TP
.B ff
Enable frequency band filtering. This modifier applies only to the UNC_P_FREQ_BANDx_CYCLES events, where x is [0-3].
The modifiers expects an integer in the range [0-255]. The value is interpreted as a frequency value to be
multiplied by 100Mhz. Thus if the value is 32, then all cycles where the processor is running at 3.2GHz and more are
counted.

.SH Frequency band filtering

There are 3 events which support frequency band filtering, namely, UNC_P_FREQ_BAND0_CYCLES, UNC_P_FREQ_BAND1_CYCLES,
UNC_P_FREQ_BAND2_CYCLES, UNC_P_FREQ_BAND3_CYCLES. The frequency filter (available via the ff modifier) is stored into
a PMU shared register which hold all 4 possible frequency bands, one per event. However, the library generate the
encoding for each event individually because it processes events one at a time. The caller or the underlying kernel
interface may have to merge the band filter settings to program the filter register properly.

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Stephane Eranian <eranian@gmail.com>
.if
.PP
