.TH LIBPFM 3  "December, 2009" "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
pfm_get_event_attr_info \- get event attribute information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <perfmon/pfmlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int pfm_get_event_attr_info(int " idx ", int " attr ", pfm_os_t " os ", pfm_event_attr_info_t *" info ");"
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
This function returns in \fBinfo\fR information about the
attribute designated by \fBattr\fR for the event specified
in \fBidx\fR and the os layer in \fBos\fR.

The \fBpfm_os_t\fR enumeration provides the following choices:
.TP
.B PFM_OS_NONE
The returned information pertains only to what the PMU hardware exports.
No operating system attributes is taken into account.
.TP
.B PFM_OS_PERF_EVENT
The returned information includes the actual PMU hardware and the
additional attributes exported by the perf_events kernel interface.
The perf_event attributes pertain only the PMU hardware.
In case perf_events is not detected, an error is returned.
.TP
.B PFM_OS_PERF_EVENT_EXT
The returned information includes all of what is already provided
by \fBPFM_OS_PERF_EVENT\fR plus all the software attributes controlled
by perf_events, such as sampling period, precise sampling.
.PP

The \fBpfm_event_attr_info_t\fR structure is defined as follows:
.nf
typedef struct {
        const char              *name;
        const char              *desc;
        const char              *equiv;
        size_t			size;
        uint64_t                code;
        pfm_attr_t              type;
        int                     idx;
        pfm_attr_ctrl_t         ctrl;
        int                     reserved1;
        struct {
                int             is_dfl:1;
                int             is_precise:1;
                int             is_speculative:2;
                int             reserved:28;
        };
        union {
                uint64_t        dfl_val64;
                const char      *dfl_str;
                int             dfl_bool;
                int             dfl_int;
        };
} pfm_event_attr_info_t;
.fi

The fields of this structure are defined as follows:
.TP
.B name
This is the name of the attribute. This is a read-only string.
.TP
.B desc
This is the description of the attribute. This is a read-only string.
It may contain multiple sentences.
.TP
.B equiv
Certain attributes may be just variations of other attributes for the same event.
They may be provided as handy shortcuts to avoid supplying a long list of attributes.
For those attributes, this field is not NULL and contains the complete equivalent attribute
string. This string, once appended to the event name, may be used library calls requiring
an event string.
.TP
.B code
This is the raw attribute code. For PFM_ATTR_UMASK, this is the unit mask code. For
all other attributes, this is an opaque index.
.TP
.B type
This is the type of the attribute. Attributes represent either sub-events or extra
filters that can be applied to the event. Filters (also called modifiers)  may be
tied to the event or the PMU register the event is programmed into. The type of an attribute
determines how it must be specified. The following types are defined:
.RS
.TP
.B PFM_ATTR_UMASK
This is a unit mask, i.e., a sub-event. It is specified using its name.
Depending on the event, it may be possible to specify multiple unit masks.
.TP
.B PFM_ATTR_MOD_BOOL
This is a boolean attribute. It has a value of 0, 1, y or n. The
value is specified after the equal sign, e.g., foo=1. As a convenience,
the equal sign and value may be omitted, in which case this is equivalent
to =1.
.TP
.B PFM_ATTR_MOD_INTEGER
This is an integer attribute. It has a value which must be passed after
the equal sign. The range of valid values depends on the attribute and
is usually specified in its description.
.PP
.RE
.TP
.B idx
This is the attribute index. It is identical to the value of \fBattr\fR
passed to the call and is provided for completeness.
.TP
.B size
This field contains the size of the struct passed. This field is used to provide
for extensibility of the struct without compromising backward compatibility.
The value should be set to \fBsizeof(pfm_event_attr_info_t)\fR. If instead, a value of
\fB0\fR is specified, the library assumes the struct passed is identical to the
first ABI version which size is \fBPFM_ATTR_INFO_ABI0\fR. Thus, if fields were
added after the first ABI, they will not be set by the library. The library
does check that bytes beyond what is implemented are zeroes.
.TP
.B is_dfl
This field indicates whether or not this attribute is set by default. This
applies mostly for PFM_ATTR_UMASK. If a unit mask is marked as default,
and no unit mask is specified in the event string, then the library uses
it by default. Note that there may be multiple defaults per event depending
on how unit masks are grouped.
.TP
.B is_precise
This field indicates whether or not this umask supports precise sampling.
Precise sampling is a hardware mechanism that avoids instruction address
skid when using interrupt-based sampling. On Intel X86 processors, this
field indicates that the umask supports Precise Event-Based Sampling (PEBS).
.TP
.B is_speculative
This bitfield indicates whether or not the attribute includes occurrences happening
during speculative execution for both wrong and correct paths. Given that this
kind of event information is not always available from vendors, this field uses
multiple bits. A value of \fBPFM_EVENT_INFO_SPEC_NA\fR indicates that speculation
information is not available. A value of \fBPFM_EVENT_INFO_SPEC_TRUE\fR indicates
that the attribute counts during speculative execution. A value of \fBPFM_EVENT_INFO_SPEC_FALSE\fR
indicates that the attribute does not count during speculative execution.
.TP
.B dfl_val64, dfl_str, dfl_bool, dfl_int
This union contains the value of an attribute. For PFM_ATTR_UMASK, the is
the unit mask code, for all other types this is the actual value of the
attribute.
.TP
.B ctrl
This field indicates which layer or source controls the attribute.
The following sources are defined:
.RS
.TP
.B PFM_ATTR_CTRL_UNKNOWN
The source controlling the attribute is not known.
.TP
.B PFM_ATTR_CTRL_PMU
The attribute is controlled by the PMU hardware.
.TP
.B PFM_ATTR_CTRL_PERF_EVENT
The attribute is controlled by the perf_events kernel interface.
.RE
.TP
.B reserved
These fields must be set to zero.
.PP

.SH RETURN

If successful, the function returns \fBPFM_SUCCESS\fR and attribute information
in \fBinfo\fR, otherwise it returns an error code.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_NOINIT
Library has not been initialized properly.
.TP
.B PFMLIB_ERR_INVAL
The \fBidx\fR or \fBattr\fR arguments are invalid or \fBinfo\fR is \fBNULL\fR or \fBsize\fR
is not zero.
.TP
.B PFM_ERR_NOTSUPP
The requested os layer has not been detected on the host system.
.SH AUTHOR
Stephane Eranian <eranian@gmail.com>
.PP
